# PALAVA Simulated Data Analysis  

## Splatter Folder  

This folder contains the Splatter package, which has been modified to produce more nonlinear trajectory simulations. The `bridge` function in the `splat-simulate.R` script was updated to enable these simulations.  

## Linear and Nonlinear PALAVA on Modified Splatter Data  

This folder contains the Snakemake pipeline for running linear and nonlinear PALAVA analyses on the modified simulated data.  

### Setup  

1. **Create Conda Environments**  
   - Set up two Conda environments:  
     - One with `r-base` and `splatter` installed.  
     - Another with `PALAVA` installed.  
   - Update the Snakemake file to reflect the names of these environments.  

2. **Create a Snakemake Profile**  
   - To run the pipeline with SLURM, you need a [Snakemake profile](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/executing/cli.html).  
   - Below is an example SLURM profile. It creates a configuration file at `.config/snakemake/slurm/config.yaml`:  

     ```yaml
     jobs: 50
     restart-times: 0
     rerun-incomplete: false
     max-jobs-per-second: 2
     printshellcmds: true

     cluster: "sbatch -t {resources.runtime} --account={resources.account} --partition={resources.partition} --mem={resources.mem_mb} -c {resources.cpus} -o {resources.output_dr} --job-name {resources.job_name} --gres {resources.gres}"

     default-resources: [cpus=1, mem_mb=2000, runtime=60]
     ```  

   - Refer to the Snakemake documentation for further details on setting up profiles.  

### Running the Pipeline  

Once the environments and profile are configured:  

- Use Snakemake to generate the data by running the pipeline.  
- The pipeline will save the results as dictionaries using NumPy.  

### Analyzing Results  

The provided notebook in this folder will:  
- Load the data generated by the pipeline.  
- Create plots to visualize the results.  
